[WIP] I507 workspace admin -> recipe (#532)
codenvy/che-docs: src/main/pages/workspace-admin/recipes.adoc

[id="supported-recipe-formats"]
== Supported Recipe Formats

Depending on the infrastructure, Che supports the following default recipe formats:

[cols=",,,,",options="header",]
|===

> |*Infrastructure* |*Docker-formatted container image* |*Dockerfile* |*Composefile* |*Kubernetes YAML*

Reviewer: :+1:

|*Docker* |Supported |Supported |Supported |Not supported
|*OpenShift* |Supported |Not supported |Not supported |Supported
|===

> [id="docker-formatted-container-image-requirements-and-limitations"]

Reviewer: Did you search the docs to find out if the previous anchor was used anywhere? I just want to make sure that nothing breaks by accident. :)

Author: Great point!  I will do.

== Docker-formatted container image requirements and limitations

The Docker-formatted container image recipe pulls an image from a Docker registry or uses the local image.  The recipe then runs the image and creates a pod that references this image in the container specification. The following are Docker-formatted container image requirements and limitations for a workspace machine:

> 1.  Use a non-terminating `CMD` or `ENTRYPOINT`. If you use a custom image, ensure that `tail -f /dev/null` is one of the main processes.

Reviewer: `tail -f /dev/null` does not _have_ to be a main process -- it's an example of a non-terminating command which will run indefinitely. There are multiple commands that could be used.

Reviewer 2: Robin has a good point here. Please, adjust the wording.

> 1.  Use a non-terminating `CMD` or `ENTRYPOINT`.  You can use `tail -f /dev/null` as one of the main processes if you are using a custom image.

Reviewer 2: * Use adoc mark-up for numbered lists.
* Don't use if :) Moving it from the beginning doesn't help.

```suggestion
.  Use a non-terminating `CMD` or `ENTRYPOINT`. For a custom image, use, for example, `tail -f /dev/null` as one of the main processes.
```

> 2.  For OpenShift only: 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
.  For OpenShift only: 
```

> * Do not use any processes and operations with `sudo` in `CMD`. See link:openshift-config.html#enable-ssh-and-sudo[Enable ssh and sudo] for more information.

Reviewer: ```adoc
Enable SSH and `sudo`
```

* Use https://github.com/eclipse/che-dockerfiles/tree/master/recipes/stack-base[Che base stacks]. You can also build your own image, but inherit from one of the base stacks.

> [id="dockerfile-definition-and-limitations"]

Reviewer: Likewise, I just want to ensure that the previous anchor wasn't being used anywhere before being changed here. :)

== Dockerfile definition and limitations

A Dockerfile is a set of instructions that Docker performs to build an image. After you provide a Dockerfile for your workspace machine, Che initiates a Docker build and runs the resulting image. The following are the limitations:

> 1.  The `COPY` and `ADD` instructions fail because there is no context in docker build.

Reviewer: I assume `docker build` is a command -- it should be styled as such.

> 1.  The `COPY` and `ADD` instructions fail because there is no context in `docker build`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. The `COPY` and `ADD` instructions fail because there is no context in `docker build`.
```

> 2.  The build of large images takes a huge amount of time.  If you have a long Dockerfile, build an image locally, push it to DockerHub and then use it as a Docker-formatted container image recipe type. The start timeout for a workspace is five minutes.

Reviewer: The period at "image recipe type. The start" is grammatically incorrect.

Reviewer 2: There's a missing serial comma in the sentence, but the period Robin's referencing seems correct to me.

Reviewer: I just reread it and I see that it's correct -- I originally added this comment because I misunderstood what the sentence was trying to _communicate_. I thought the point was "if you have a long Dockerfile, ... the start timeout for a workspace is five minutes". Now, I'm interpreting the timeout as general information not directly related to having a long Dockerfile.

For the original sentence, just for the sake of clarity, I'd recommend slightly rewriting it. Maybe something like this:

"Large images can take a long time to build. If you have a long Dockerfile, it is recommended to build that image locally, push it to DockerHub, then use the pushed image as a Docker-formatted container image recipe type."

> 2.  Large images can take a long time to build.  If you have a long Dockerfile, it is recommended to build that image locally, push it to DockerHub and then use the pushed image as a Docker-formatted container image recipe type. The start timeout for a workspace is five minutes.

Reviewer 2: * adoc mark-up
* no 'if'
* serial comma

```suggestion
. To avoid long build times with long Dockerfiles, build your image locally, push it to DockerHub, and then use the pushed image as a Docker-formatted container image recipe type. The start timeout for a workspace is five minutes.
```

[id="running-multi-container-workspaces-using-compose-files"]
== Running multi-container workspaces using Compose files

> You can run multi-container workspaces using Compose files on Docker.  The unsupported syntax is: *Local "build.context" and "build.dockerfile"*.

Reviewer 2: *  changes meaning: " The unsupported syntax is:" -- there's no prior reference to this syntax, so it cannot be worded like this.
* for syntax, use monospace (backticks)

> You can run multi-container workspaces using Compose files on Docker.  There is some unsupported syntax: `Local "build.context" and "build.dockerfile"`.

Reviewer 2: clearer:

```suggestion
You can run multi-container workspaces using Compose files on Docker. The following syntax is not supported: `Local "build.context" and "build.dockerfile"`.
```

> Because Che workspaces can be distributed, you cannot have host-local build and Dockerfile contexts.  You can remotely host these aspects in a git repository. Che sources the Compose file from the remote system and uses it as the build context.

Reviewer: Git is a proper noun.

You can run into a failure when the Dockerfile or build context requires you to `ADD` or `COPY` other files into the image.  The local Che workspace generator cannot access these remote files. 

[id="Accessing remote files"]
=== Accessing remote files

To ensure the local Che workspace generator can access remote files, take these steps:

.  Pre-package the build context or Dockerfile into an image.

.  Push that image into a registry.

> .  Reference the already-built image in your Compose file. 

Reviewer 2: better?
```suggestion
.  Reference the pre-built image in your Compose file. 
```

Author: yes

  context: ./my/local/filesystem
----

[id="using-private-repositories"]
=== Using private repositories

To use private repositories in a remote build context:

> . Set up the ssh keys on your host machine. 

Reviewer: SSH

  context: git@github.com:eclipse/che-dockerfiles.git#master:recipes/stack-base/ubuntu
----

[id="Configuring privileged access"]
=== Configuring privileged access

The `privileged` Compose option does not support securing the underlying host system.

> To configure the Che server to give all containers privileged access, take these steps:

Reviewer 2: Only one step, so it doesn't make sense to have as a list (with just one item).
```suggestion
To configure the Che server to give all containers privileged access, set the `CHE_PROPERTY_machine_docker_privilege__mode` variable to `true`.
```

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

> .  Set the `CHE_PROPERTY_machine_docker_privilege__mode` variable to `true`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

[IMPORTANT]
====
Setting the `CHE_PROPERTY_machine_docker_privilege_mode` variable to `true` makes the host system vulnerable and gives all containers access to the host system.
====

=== Special considerations when using Compose files

*Build images*

When a Compose file includes both build instructions and a build image, the build instructions override the build image, if it exists.

*Container names*

The `container_name` is skipped during execution. Instead, Che generates container names based on its own internal patterns. Avoid naming conflicts.  Many developers can be running the same Compose file on the same Che workspace node at the same time.

The following is an example of a YAML file using a container name:

[source,yaml]
----
container_name: my_container
----

*Volumes*

> To define volumes for workspace machines, see link:volumes.html[volumes]. Volume instructions in a Compose file are not supported.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To define volumes for workspace machines, see link:volumes.html[Volumes]. Volume instructions in a Compose file are not supported.
```

  driver: bridge
----

*Hostname*

> The hostname is not supported.  The machine’s name is used for the hostname. You can use `links` aliases syntax to add additional hostnames to a machine.

Reviewer 2: Orig. version correct:

```suggestion
Hostname is not supported.  The machine’s name is used for the hostname. You can use `links` aliases syntax to add additional hostnames to a machine.
```

*Binding ports*

> Binding ports to the host system is not supported to ensure that each container does not use already assigned host ports. You can add link:servers.html[servers] to the machines.

Reviewer 2: orig. clearer; suggest:

```suggestion
Binding ports to the host system is not supported to ensure that containers do not use already assigned host ports. Users can work around this limitation by adding link:servers.html[servers] to machines.
```

> Binding ports to the host system is not supported.  You must ensure that each container does not use already assigned host ports.  Many developers can be running the same Compose file on the same Che server host at the same time. You can add link:servers.html[servers] to the machines.

Reviewer 2: - This edit changes orig. meaning (leaving out 'because').
- don't use speculative lang. like "many developers can be" -- just state the reason why the binding is not supported, and how it can be worked around

Author: How about this:

Binding ports to the host system is not supported to ensure that each container does not use already assigned host ports.  You can add link:servers.html[servers] to machines instead of binding ports to the host system.

*Environment file*

> The `env_file` compose command is not supported. Environment variables can be manually entered in the Compose file or machine configuration. See link:env-variables.html[Environment variables] for more information.

Reviewer: Should "compose" be capitalized in "compose command" here?

Author: I am looking into this..

Reviewer 2: It's not a command -- it's an option. See https://docs.docker.com/compose/environment-variables/#the-env_file-configuration-option. So yes, Compose should be capitalized.

[id="kubernetes-yaml-limitations-and-restrictions"]
== Kubernetes YAML limitations and restrictions

When a workspace is starting, Che creates a https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/workloads/pods/pod/[Kubernetes pod]. The following are limitatons and restrictions:

> 1.  Che allows user to create only pods and services.

Reviewer 2: user -> users (or 'a user')

> 2.  If you have an exception from Kubernetes, other object kinds such as PVCs and routes are ignored or a workspace fails to starts.

Reviewer 2: This changes orig. meaning and makes no sense.

Originally, it said that when you're starting a workspace, and a pod is created, other (other then pods) objects are ignored (if specified). Sometimes, apparently, the workspace fails to start if other objects are specified, and K8s throws an exception.

There's no need to change the orig. sentence. If you want to improve it, inquire with an SME why the workspace creation only fails sometimes.
